We're talking to Ian.
Ian, yeah.
It's the Gaelic spelling, but it's the same word as Ian.
No, just technically to get the other people you want to contact, it seems to me.
Howard Besser.
I mentioned his name to you, I think.
Howard Besser, he's in the library school here.
Now, whether he's here this week, I don't know.
But he lives in Berkeley, but he does have an appointment also at... I can tell you where.
I've got a reference to him here.
Somewhere.
Yes.
What that book is that you have there?
Hmm?
What book is this that you're holding?
This is my book, which I can't give you a copy.
It's the only copy I have.
But I should be able to...
You can get it, you can get it, maybe, certainly at Cody's in Berkeley.
And the title is?
Resisting the Virtual Life.
The Culture and Politics of Information.
Who's the publisher?
City Lights.
So, in San Francisco, so it should be.
But they have it, it's sort of around.
Oh, it's B as in... Besser, yeah.
Besser, okay.
He's partly at the University of Michigan and he's partly here at the library school.
When Jill arrives, which is in a few minutes, she'll have his phone number here.
Oh, super.
Okay, great.
And he has a... He's good to talk to because he knows what's happening here intimately more than anyone else, but he's also got a critical take, I thought.
And he's not shy about talking about it?
No, not at all.
So his piece is called From Internet to Information Superhighway.
So it's in here?
Yeah.
I know that piece.
Was this published here for the first time?
Yes.
Where did I see it?
Yeah, it's shown up elsewhere.
Okay, good, good, excellent.
I can do an interview with him by phone if necessary.
Yes, exactly.
I much prefer meeting people.
Exactly.
Telephones aren't helpful.
So tell me about this.
Tell me about... I haven't seen it yet.
Oh, yeah.
This is Joe.
May I get you a cup of coffee?
We've been joined by Jillian.
So, we should definitely talk to Howard, if it's a phone conversation, but you might be able to find him here.
These are just the names that I think you should try to get before you go.
You should try to talk to Gray Breckin.
I've already talked to him for two and a half hours, and we're getting together.
He's terrific.
He sounds excellent.
He called back, and it was really to make contact.
We wound up talking for two and a half hours.
Now, he probably told you that there's this very good piece that was published.
on the San Francisco library in a local
Free weekly.
I have all that stuff.
You have that one.
I was with the librarians last night.
Yeah.
Thank goodness I've got a release with wheels on it.
Yeah, right.
Whatever that new free one is called.
It's one that... I mean, Melissa has been dealing with it.
Yeah, I know.
I understand.
I mean, I couldn't believe that you wouldn't have that piece, which I think is the best single short thing done on it.
Okay.
I mean, basically, what you should talk to Jill about is, you know, somebody inside the library, on the book side, watching.
Talk about Barclay.
You should talk to Barclay Ogden.
Have you done that yet?
To whom, I'm sorry?
Barclay Ogden.
No.
Jill will tell your name.
Yes, Barclay Ogden.
How do we spell?
B-A-R-C-L-A-Y-O-G-D-E-N.
And he's in charge of the digital program.
Here?
Yes, at Berkeley.
And there's been a lot of difficulty over it.
Oh, really?
Because I think there's a power struggle on some level about who owns it and who doesn't.
I've already been to Michigan.
I've been to Stanford last year.
Cornell, of course, is very, very interesting.
Cornell's doing some things, I think, in Mississippi, California here.
So, yeah.
I'm hoping to set up a day.
I mean, maybe Thursday or Friday.
And so Barkley Ogden is in what department?
He's the head of the conservation department in the library.
His number is 642.
4946.
642.
510.
It's interesting because he's a man trained.
Trained in...
the physical conservation of books who has as it were jumped ship in a certain way gone with the fashion gone digital because he has to follow the money in order to keep his program going he has to follow the money which of course is all to do with digitalization and and in fact he's been squeezed microfilming naturally moved into digitization right right yeah a lot of people still
think that microfilming is good, because we know how long microfilm lasts.
Tried and true, that's the argument, yes.
That's what Roger Scott says at Harvard, you know, we know microfilm.
I know, but nobody's really surveyed the readers of microfilm even.
I mean, everybody's totally frustrated, it always has been, with microfilm.
I'm going to Leipzig next month, where their whole unit on preservation, the Germans are really... We'll see.
On preservation?
Because Barkley will know about that.
That's right.
So it would be really useful for me to talk to him before I go to... And that's something you should mention, maybe, of your focus, because he would be... Oh, yes, certainly.
Sorry.
Go right ahead.
Barclay is importantly positioned on the national scene.
He's not just a local enthusiast, he's got a very good grasp of the politics of
of the book and its place.
And so I think he's an important person to search for me.
I think so.
Particularly because he's got a foot in both camps.
I mean, he deeply knows about books as artifacts, as well as being, you know, dragged into the
digitalization because yeah he's in there yeah he's upstairs and so tell me about yourselves and what you do here uh well i mean this about this the reason why howard and these other people are in here this being the book yeah yeah is that um
I'm really a sort of social historian of technology, and so I teamed up with Jim Brook, who's an editor, who's a poet and an editor, who works in Silicon Valley, and saw what was happening.
Jim saw what was happening in Silicon Valley and what was happening to... And the fetish of information.
And so we decided that we would try to... And the hype, the millennial hype over information and its fetishization.
And so we decided that we would... This was about three years ago.
That we would try to pull together a series of critical essays that would...
try to sort of stand back and deal with the hype, you know.
It's interesting you found out the fetishization.
Yeah.
You have to believe it's reached that level.
Oh, there's no question about it.
I mean, it has a long history in the sense that you probably know, but theories of information began to emerge during the Second World War with the
when the war became global and 24-hour, and with very, very noisy equipment, command and control, communication becomes, it's always been important for the imperial project, the landlines, God knows what, but it's etherealization sort of becomes, the questions become really urgent in the 40s, in the early 40s, and so you get Bell Labs combining with small groups of mathematicians like, you know,
You know, Warren Weaver, Shannon, and you get cybernetics as a science being coined in 1948.
It's that kind of mix.
It's interesting that the world is more than 50 years old and most of the world is cybernetics.
Yeah, and it crystallizes because...
You need to theorize it at a moment when you've got all kinds of important questions being asked about encryption, about how to get undegraded messages across space.
And so you can see that, if you look at the history, you can see that the word information becomes a kind of...
buzzword in the as early as the 40s but it doesn't really sort of go it doesn't really get commercialized in the sense until until the what i suppose until the 80s really you begin it really begins to take off you took on a different context i think entirely yeah yeah
No, it doesn't.
No, exactly.
And I think in there somewhere I do have a kind of a history of... Because the interesting thing is that Al Gore, who's the architect of the superhighway, his father was the architect of the first superhighway, namely the interstate system.
And the same kind of height was around, you know, emerged around a freeway system.
I read about that, but they had a couch and ice power made it acceptable by saying it was for national defense, the highways.
That was the only way they could get that feeling about it.
It was, it was, right.
It was more to do with it being funded by the, I mean, this is Chomsky's point, that you can't, you can't, anything that's federal funding, for it not to seem like socialism, you have to call it defense.
So that, and of course it's true for the computer and chip and so on.
These are all done under the umbrella.
of national defense as was the as was the highway system which which happened which i which it needs to be said had very few the boosters no one really was demanding it in the 50s except you know the road lobby road and tire lobby the oil people and you know developers
So as a so-called historian of technology, tell me about your attraction to this particular subject.
Well, what is noticeable when you look at the hype is that this is not the first go-round for this.
Particularly in the American context, again, there's a...
the technical fix is a peculiarly sort of American dream and the demise of the book, the idea... The added context of course is what's happening and what will happen to the book.
The other thing I see why the book has, you know,
been targeted in a way because if you think about education too i mean that everyone this whole sort of philosophy on education for everybody and people are now saying that information is power i mean they're totally admitting it now so that the access to the computer that you know they never admitted that before they never said that if you knew something you were powerful and i think that's come out of this too that
now you're entitled as an ordinary citizen to know everything, right?
And somehow that's equality, that's the American way, that's democracy, right?
But we all know that's not true, of course, but that's how they're touting it too, which I find very interesting.
And consequently, the book has always had that element too of you've got to be able to afford it.
You know, and that whole debate that's going on, that they say, well, everyone can get access in education because the computer is going to be for everybody.
We know that's not true, but, you know, nobody's truly, you know, fighting that, too, you know.
I find that's going to be an issue.
I mean, already they're closing down on the university and saying you can't do certain things, you know, you mustn't... Is that happening here?
Yes, yes.
They haven't quite... I mean, like, they've always closed down on faxes and on telephones.
They've always made you pay, right?
But they haven't quite yet...
cottoned onto the email.
Not yet.
They will do.
So tell me, what do you do here?
I'm the book conservator for the rare materials.
Oh, really?
Yes.
So I restore all the old books.
So I sort of have been
pushed to a corner and I'm quietly working away.
And this is for the university library?
Yes, for the research libraries, for the special collections libraries, which are different from the circulating collections.
In my book, The Gentle Madness, that was my principal concern with the special collections.
Yes, well, the special collections actually are going to be driven into a quiet corner and they're going to continue because there's
Well, they are digitizing Chaucer and some of the medieval manuscripts, but we all know it will never be good enough in the same way you can't digitize paintings, not yet anyway.
You need such a huge memory and such a huge machine to pull them up, but what's the point?
Well, I was at Cornell just a year ago where they're, of course, doing all this digital stuff.
and they showed me what they were doing.
They have this enormous probe of Lafayette.
Oh, the idea of breaking light.
You can see how something's been folded, been handled, been manipulated, and turned.
You can see it.
That's why the original is so important.
At Cornell also.
They're not bagel.
Look, there's guns over there.
It smells like they're not bagel.
Yeah, Timmy Nation is the head of special collections there.
Yes, I think the Bancroft definitely has money.
They've just required this huge
Mexican Inquisition.
Yes, we're the friends of the Mancroft and people.
They've got a lot of support, actually, at Berkeley.
They are buying.
So there is interest in the artifacts?
Much more than anything else.
I mean, we're the dog and pony show.
I mean, if you bring anybody who's a donor, you bring them to the conservation club and they look at rare materials.
It's fancy.
It's glitzy.
We know that.
You know, like that letter they showed you.
What did they show you for the letter, right?
Of course, a beautiful little letter.
Yeah, see, they'll do that.
Think of your Isaac Newton... Isaac Newton, yes.
Isaac Newton's copy of Henry Moore's book on Daniel.
I mean, that's... Well, this is the real thing, you know.
But I mean, as a historian, I... It's the deformation of the historian, but...
What's interesting is the hype is so ill-informed in many ways.
There are so many shibboleths that you'd have to fire out of the book.
So as a historian, sitting here in East Bay, you also have that situation going on in San Francisco.
Do you have any thoughts of sitting back and looking at both?
I mean, is it an interesting Jefferson position?
The way we framed it in Resisting to Virtual Life is that what you're faced with in Besser agrees with this, I think, is that this is part of the continuing enclosures.
I mean, if you can... I mean, I'm using it as a sort of metaphor from the 18th century, the dispossession of people from the comments.
I mean, the enclosure of information into a... They won't pay per, why wouldn't they?
Every time you pay for every hit, you know?
I mean, there's an enormous amount of money to be made on this, so, you know... Not by the author, though.
No, no, no, the author is being...
is being, you know, disempowered.
I'm not happy that they post chapters of my book on the internet.
No.
I'm losing royalty every time.
Yeah, yeah, of course.
There is a, what's the name of it?
I remember I was trying to reach it and get it in Peppers.
There's a new book on the history of copyright by a critical scholar.
What's the name of the guy?
I don't know the name of the guy.
Of course, people are now interested in copyright.
There's a new thing happening, but there's one that's...
that takes a critical... You see a lot of 19th century stuff and early 20th up until, you know, the stuff is still in copyright.
And then, you know, they're really only digitizing stuff that's public domain.
There are problems to be resolved with
getting permission to scan copyrighted material.
So that is a continuing problem.
Do you resist the work?
Well, I haven't had enough really yet to read the book.
I'll get it when I can make a sentence, but I couldn't write it.
Yes, yes, of course.
And resisting it in the sense that...
Oh, first of all, it's... So you take a position beyond, obviously, reporting, being a historian of... Oh, yeah, absolutely.
I mean, I do it out of a commitment to a more radical deepening of democracy, which digitalization is certainly not about.
In fact, it's precisely about enclosure.
So, I mean...
It's about... Discussion of the computer in the abstract is meaningless.
It's completely different if you have an artisanal relationship to it, like you do or I do, maybe, than if you're chained to it as a data entry neo-slave.
You know, I mean, our bank checks are entered in the Virgin Islands each night by people who can't get up to take a pee, you know, and who are getting digital palsy every night.
I mean, that's entirely different.
So...
What all technologies are about is, you know, they're all historically, as Chuck Marks said, you know, they're all, you know, weapons in the class war, potentially.
And so, you know, it doesn't, it makes no sense to ask, you know, is the computer good or bad?
I mean, because it's all, all technologies are...
It's always inserted into already existing sets of social relations.
The book's not going to die.
It's ridiculous.
Well, I didn't interview David Bradbury at the British Library.
It cost a billion pounds to build the British Library.
And he said, you know, if we were to digitize every page, we figured it out, it would cost 50 billion pounds.
And labor, the cost of labor is not going to, you know, and the biggest action is labor, it's not technology.
So trust me, the book's not going to disappear for a long, long, long time, you know.
And they are books that need updating regularly, reference books.
Maybe that's not so bad.
Maybe it's not so bad, exactly.
And maybe one can read the newspaper online, you know, things that are a little more ephemeral, you know, we have a little less of...
You know, paper wasted, maybe.
I mean, maybe it's not so bad.
I don't want to get rid of my newspaper.
Well, all right.
But I do think that things that get updated are good.
The OED, maybe it's better.
I think so.
I really believe that.
We haven't been constantly being changed.
Our monographs that cost you 150 bucks, and they're only issued in a thousand copies of that many, and it's obsolete today.
So maybe stuff like that?
I think so.
If it can do that, and if it can make it more readily accessible at that level in public libraries, it's worthwhile.
Do you have any take on deaccessioning things, getting rid of things, and less coffee situations?
Well, it happens in every library.
Over here?
Well, what happens?
Well, what happens in libraries is it goes into the gift shop, mostly, and then people come and buy it, and if they don't buy it, it gets dumped.
They dump it.
Oh, you know, I honestly don't know that because I'm not a librarian.
Well, people in acquisitions, you know.
Maybe you could ask Barclay, actually, who you would talk to.
He would know that.
I'm trying to think about that.
I could find out for you if you don't have any luck with him.
I'll find out for you.
Because there'll be policies.
I mean, they'll be written down somewhere.
I could get you a copy of those.
But, I mean, if a book hasn't been read in two or three or four or five years, you think that there is a candidate for... No, we have curators look at them.
We have curators of all subject matters come and look at them.
We don't have people who don't, you know, who just...
are in acquisitions or circulation saying, oh, this book has... No, I mean, I have books through my hands that haven't been read since 1930.
They've never been touched.
And yet, you know, somebody takes it out and it falls apart.
So I go, oh, this needs mending.
That's really my work.
But I don't say it wouldn't happen.
I mean, you can imagine that that will be a criterion, right?
What will be?
Well, if it's not been consulted in 50 years.
Not in the research level.
Well, not in the research level, but I know at the University of Michigan, they were thinking, what, five years?
Yeah.
You know, what hasn't been used in five years?
Does an argument have to be made about keeping it?
I'll talk to that question, because he is so much into use, you know, because our whole program is,
based on use, so that we only deal with the books that have been used.
And I know that's slightly for... I'm talking about, no, circulating and special collections.
And even one use, there's a formula where he thinks it will have more use.
No use, it can stay on the shelf.
One use, then you look at it, you know, and you respond to it.
I think this has to do with triage on, you know, the sort of cost-benefit.
This is, I think, the real difference in modernity.
I mean, late modernity is about triage.
It's all about cost-benefit.
That's a great quote.
No, its cost-benefit analysis has taken over almost all disciplines.
Yes.
No, it's not just medicine and environmental health, but it's precisely... I mean, this is why Barclay's thinking, well, how many times is it going to be used?
In other words, is Jill going to disbind it and put it in a new... It's going to be 200 hours of work, or do you just put it in a phase box?
And, you know, because it's only going to be picked up twice in 50 years.
And I think in a way that makes sense.
I mean, I think that in a way that makes sense.
So it's one of the reasons I've got interested in the politics of risk, because it's very, very of risk.
I have a small essay on risk which I should give you, which lays out
this shift in world view, which is at the heart of conservation as well as it is ever, you know, there's a dozen... I've got some cards in my car across the street.
I happen to be parked right over there, so I'll give you my card.
Yeah, you should.
I have to go in a minute.
All right, okay.
When do you think would be my best time to try Barclay?
I think we should try now.
He's there all day.
I think we should just try him and set up an appointment.
He would rather you called him, I know that.
He has lots of meetings.
But I think you should ask him about use, too.
Ask Barclay about use and risk of the collections.
Use?
And how he's devised his program, on what basis, you know.
He should be interested in, I've had a long interview with Ken Carpenter at Harvard.
This chapter, I'm going to have a chapter on this.
Let's do that again.
Every copy of Mark Twain gets looked at and analyzed and itemized and
Oh, there were so many points, that's right, there were so many issues.
Every time.
Where is the Mark Twain?
Mark Twain's upstairs in the Bancroft, and I'm trying to think, Robert Hurst, H-A-R-S-T, H-I-R-S-T, Hurst.
What's the name of the librarian that, I know I've met him?
The rare book librarian, Tony Bliss, Anthony Bliss.
I mean, the Bancroft?
Oh, Charles Fulhaver is the head of the Bancroft.
I know I met a gentleman last year at the ILAB.
Peter Hempf?
Peter Hempf was running it for a while.
That's right.
I know Peter, but who does Peter work for?
Charles Fulhaver.
He's got a mustache, a slight fellow.
He's new.
He's only been there a year.
I met him just about a year ago.
Yeah, that's probably right then.
What's his name again?
Charles Fulhaver.
Charles, that's he.
He's the fellow that told me.
He's not bothered by the thought of having books leave the libraries.
And he said that to me on tape last year.
Charles?
I'm not surprised.
F-A-U-L-H-A-B-E-R.
Do you have his number here?
No.
Actually, it might not.
Okay, you can get him through...
His number is 642... 3773.
3773.
Yeah, that's the main Bancroft number.
I'm going to go make some calls.
That's five women.
Okay, thank you.
Yes, and Barkley, I realize now, now I think about it, he's in a meeting till 11.
Okay, I'm going to go... My boss has gone upstairs, so she'll be in a meeting.
And you have to go... Well, she's not going back till 11, but I do.
Okay, great.
I do.
Okay.
I'm meeting with Paul...
You go there at noon, and he said, you'll tell me how to get there.
Yeah, yeah, he's good.
It's right now from here.
We're meeting at a restaurant.
I'm interviewing at 3 p.m.
today.
Questions?
About a library.
Why does he have to say there are 10 white women whose librarians are up?
I mean, this concept of the affinity groups, all this empty space.
What do you think of that library?
Do you have an opinion?
that you cared to be quoted on at San Francisco Libraries.
And I've been to the French Library now.
That's a statement.
They admit this is a cultural statement that they're making.
It may not be very book-friendly and library-friendly, but they were making a cultural national statement.
I wonder what the health statement is they're making at the census.
I think it's a personal statement for someone.
I don't think it's a statement to reflect.
But do you know which person that is?
Well, the guys who organized the... It's a corporate library.
I think they jumped on the fact that there was this enormous...
general goodwill by the people of the bay area san francisco who can be against libraries it's the last public it's the last commons you know it's all that we have it's a tremendously powerful
metaphor for our lost common life you know the public library so there's an enormous fund of goodwill and uh this bond measure i mean listening to 78 fantastic amount of money and and there was a number of unscrupulous people who um but what were they trying to accomplish what were they trying to build do you think in their monument
Well, I don't know.
I mean, I think that obviously it's the crucible.
There's a number of forces at work.
I mean, I agree with Gray on this, that he, Gray Breton, right, that probably there's been malfeasance, you know, that there are people that there's conflict of interest, and that it's a kind of... If you talk about, if you get this tremendous public support, you get the money,
You get the mandate to build a library.
Why don't you just build a library?
What would the agenda be?
Why would you want to do something that's not a repository of books?
Why would you dump books?
Why would you build a place with all this open, unusable space?
You know, have parties and do all this other stuff.
Is it, in fact, a commitment to the computerized library?
I mean, I don't know.
Is that what it is?
I think that's part of what it is.
You're going to have to... I mean, that's why you... I mean, you need to...
I'm going to ask you that.
The obvious question is, how does Coltrick become qualified to be the president of the Libraries Commission?
He doesn't have a library card, and I've already found that out.
He's never taken a book out of the San Francisco Public Library.
I'm not going to be that direct.
He doesn't need to.
Just ask him what kinds of books he'd like to read.
Ask him what his library's like.
How books are relevant to him?
I don't know.
I've never seen anything like this.
Have you ever seen anything like it?
No, it's a horrendous example, I think, of what, you know, I mean, it's a wake-up call.
I think that's why it's a very good, it's a very, very good case study.
That's why I'm here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I don't want to be quoted on this, actually, this one, because James Chafee... Say that.
Yeah.
I wanted to say something like that.
Except in the beginning.
You had James Chafee, who I'm seeing, by the way.
Yeah.
You indicated that he wrote a piece for this book, Resisting the Virtual Life.
Yeah, yeah.
James submitted a piece for Resisting the Virtual Life, which, you know, made claims that there was...
uh terrible things going on at the san francisco public library which we were interested in anyway as a case study but we had no idea uh that he was so on the mark and so early i mean he was there you know years before anyone else he was trying to raise a and he had a newsletter which uh sounded hysterical that's what i said i said you understand
And he said to me, you know, you're probably going to think I'm crazy.
And I said, well, I don't know.
I don't want to ask you what I think.
It's what other people think.
You know, I'm just coming out to report it.
And I said, well, what is your, why are you so intensely involved?
And he said, I'm a library person.
And, you know, they've stolen my library.
And, you know, I'll talk to him.
You have to learn.
So.
We'll chat.
Thank you so much.
And what's your... I've got to... What's it now?
It's 10 minutes to 11.
Oh, I can go for another 10 minutes.
Okay, good.
And then I can make a full pass.
Thanks.
Bye-bye, John.
Let me give you this back.
This is now...
Now we've had coffee now.
I can call you and we can have a conversation.
Yes, of course.
I look at this as an opening shot.
The telephone.
Let me transcribe this.
Let me read this.
Let me talk to a few more people.
Now we begin.
At the end, we can do the whole thing.
The extent to which I might be useful is as
is as a sort of historian's voice on technology.
I want to see Tilly Olsen tomorrow, who will be wonderful.
She's a writer and a library user, a person who's totally formed by public libraries.
She has no axe to grind other than the fact that libraries are places where you go to commune with the past and the heritage and the history, and they're throwing our books away, she says.
And she's a pretty eloquent voice.
for that.
You're a historian.
Give me a little biographical background.
I'm originally from Ireland, from Ulster.
My family are Northern Protestants.
But I was sent away to school in England from the age of six.
I had a sort of classical education.
I was a recovering classicist.
At where?
I was at Shontland College and then I went to Oxford and Cambridge.
And I got interested in... And I eventually became a kind of a historian of science and technology, but with a detour through linguistics.
And I focused in my work on linguistics on the emergence of...
post-war linguistics.
I was interested because of my political views in Noam Chomsky, and I was interested in how it was that he came to have his theory of language, his unusual view of language, and its relationship to
the sort of industrial complex and the scientific military complex in Boston.
Because he first went to work on... His first job was on a machine translation project.
Well, an artificial intelligence project, in fact, in the mid-50s.
That's pretty great.
That's very well chronicled, isn't it?
At MIT.
Although he says that he never believed in the hype around that particular project, which was really an attempt to pull down Russian broadcasts and to get a computer translation and then do a human post-editing.
It was kind of a bizarre project.
But that's what took me to the whole Boston milieu.
So you're familiar with my neck of the woods?
I worked at Harvard for three years.
I was in the History of Science Department when I first got to the States.
And Jill was recruited from Britain to go and work at the New England Conservation Center.
So you met Jill?
I came, I followed Jill.
Jill was recruited to work in the States.
I came to North America not because I particularly like it here, although I don't particularly like it anywhere, but I think the world is in a bad state.
But so we went to Boston and we lived in Cambridge, yes.
And so I'm quite familiar with Widener.
And she trained in a very old-fashioned way.
I mean, she...
Her boss was Sandy Cockrell, whose father was apprentice to Colton Sanderson and William Morris.
So Jill actually has some of Morris's old tools and things.
So she is an old school bookbinder conservator who is watching, fascinated, the destruction of the libraries.
How about a conservative?
greater length.
Yeah, it's very interesting to see her take on and for her to watch Bartley Ogden, you know, who himself trained, I think, at the Newbury, you know, have to more or less enthusiastically get into the sort of the politics of the book and conservation and deal with the
this astounding situation in libraries where... Yeah.
Well, I'm just sort of... I love the politics of the book.
Yes.
I mean, it's absolutely riveting to watch Barclay.
I mean, I don't know.
You could find out maybe how much Barclay still has, you know, that sort of cathexis
of the actual artifact that... Have what?
What was that word again?
Sort of cathexis.
You know, the kind of... Well, it's a Freudian term.
How do you spell it?
C-A-T-H-E-X-I-S.
It's the kind of... It's what book lovers have.
You know, that kind of... The mania for... Well, that might be a chapter title.
Cathexis, yeah.
It's a good word.
Yeah.
To cathex something.
It's when you... It implies a kind of...
more than an emotional investment, but that's somehow like physical, you know.
It's an investment in the touch and feel.
It's a Freudian term.
It's used in Freudian theory.
You cathect various objects.
If you're talking about, yeah, to cathect, yeah.
And cathexis is the noun.
And, I mean, it's the relation you have to particular kinds of book thieves and bibliophiles and those of us who love books desperately.
Those of us who love books.
I mean, you can cathect, of course, cars and breasts.
Yes, exactly.
But, yeah, I mean, God, what is the culture of consumption if not...
just a series of uh you know but i mean barclay i don't know whether he i mean he loves books too but he's had to he's i think he's interesting like besser would be because you know these are people with feet in in both camps in a way
I've got that point where I'm thinking.
I see things that make nice chapter panels too, you know.
In both camps.
You know, he's on the cusp.
And whether books... Which way is it... I mean, of course it's up for grabs.
I mean, that's why I think that, you know, Gray and... Nick Baker and Gray, when that famous meeting where they gave these unbelievably powerful speeches in the belly of the beast of the new library...
Um, you know, it was the first time for me and I realized, you know, how much was at stake, you know, that actually San Francisco was, you know, this was a site of struggle and it was terribly important because the scope of the malfeasance and the, you know, what was going on and the, uh, it was the first time I'd heard fully about, you know, Brooks Hall, you know, and this, these miles of
I'm going down there.
I'm demanding it.
I'm not even going to.
I've stuck in all kinds of places in my life.
I don't think it would be hard.
And if necessary, I'll do it.
But I'm asking straight away.
I want to see it.
Why can't I see it?
Exactly.
I mean, television cameras have been down there.
I'm writing a goddamn book.
Yes, exactly.
This is for all time.
I mean, I want to go see it.
I want to see what you're doing with these collections.
Yes.
We'll see, won't we?
So...
Do you have anything formal to do with the university?
I do.
Actually, I work in that building there.
It's the geography department.
I work in the geography department as a historian.
So the university hires historians?
Do you write history or do you teach it?
To teach it, yeah.
Oh, so you're a teacher.
I teach.
I teach in the geography department, yeah.
That's great.
Yeah, and so I do...
the history of geography, the history of science, environmental history.
My courses are on these big surveys on nature and culture.
Yes, it does.
Yes, exactly.
This one, I don't know.
This is a very small one.
Yeah, it may be.
It may be.
They have it on Cody's.
Have you been to Cody's, the big bookstore?
There's two serious bookstores in Berkeley, just on the south side of the campus.
I've got to be back in this town, so I couldn't let it come back.
I've got it.
I've got it, for sure.
Yeah, I mean, it's around.
I can't say which particular.
No, you'll be able to pick it up.
I'm sorry I don't have any more copies for me.
No to worry.
I'm supposed to meet Paul.